---
layout: project
title: Mechatronics Final Project
description: A small robot for collecting cubes
technologies: [Electronics] [CAD]
image: 
---
Mechanical: The robot sits atop a cage and has two retracting arms. It uses two ____ servos to drive the wheels through a 8:5 gear train and 9g servos for the arms. Utilized the provided servo accessories to improve torque transfer. Frame extended with acrylic for cost efficiency. Did best to utilize the chassis that was given at the start of the project. Included hard stops into the geometry of the arms so that it would never exceed the geometric bounds established by the rules. Caster wheels for stability and better maneuverability pivoting off the two main drive wheels.

Electrical: We utilize an Arduino Uno with a 9V battery and an external 6V battery which passes through a 12V voltage step-up module and an H-Bridge for each drive motor. To keep the design as simple as possible, we utilize the reset button on the Arduino to activate the program. No external sensors - color sensor, line follower, ultrasonic, etc.

Software: The software divides the movement and arm opening/closing into individual functions for ease of implementation (as further elaborated on in Appendix D) and calibration. We are utilizing the timers OCR1A (left wheel), OCR1B (right wheel), OCR2A (left arm), and OCR2B (right arm) to provide independent pwm control to each servo and so we can calibrate the drive motors which were modified to remove their independent pwm processor. We utilize masking to ensure pins are not overwritten between functions but elected not to use interrupts because of the linear design of our robot behavior.
